#summary How to run your application on localhost .

The consumer keys and secrets obtained from providers require a public domain URL of your application. Most of the providers will not allow you to give URLs like http://localhost/myapp. So how do you test your application on a local development machine?

To do this, you should obtain the consumer keys and secrets by giving any public domain URL, for example, http://example.com/myapp. Now you can do the following steps to run the application on your local development machine:

  # Get your consumer keys and secrets by registering with providers. For more info read [GettingStarted GettingStarted] prerequisites.
  # Open hosts file from “C:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\etc” path.
  # Make entry in hosts file as below:-
{{{
# Copyright (c) 1993-1999 Microsoft Corp.
#
# This is a sample HOSTS file used by Microsoft TCP/IP for Windows.
#
# This file contains the mappings of IP addresses to host names. Each
# entry should be kept on an individual line. The IP address should
# be placed in the first column followed by the corresponding host name.
# The IP address and the host name should be separated by at least one
# space.
#
# Additionally, comments (such as these) may be inserted on individual
# lines or following the machine name denoted by a '#' symbol.
#
# For example:
#
#      102.54.94.97     rhino.acme.com          # source server
#       38.25.63.10     x.acme.com              # x client host

127.0.0.1	opensource.brickred.com #Change this to your domain name
#127.0.0.1       localhost
}}}
  # Change your Tomcat server name property from localhost to "opensource.brickred.com" or your domain name.
  # Run your server on port 80.
  # Deploy your application and start your server. Now you can access your application by using "http://example.com/myapp". In the example above, we have pointed "opensource.brickred.com" to local machine so that we are able to use the consumer keys and secrets obtained for our sample application can be used on a development machine.