#summary List of features incorporated in different versions.

= !SocialAuth History =

== Whats new in Version 4.2 ? ==
 # Refresh token functionality for Facebook
 # Added !GooglePlus provider
 # Added Instagram provider
 # Twitter API v1.1 implemented
 # Command line utility to generate and save access token
 # All core projects are maven-ise now and jars are available on maven repository.
 # All demos except seam and grails are maven-ise now.
 # Struts2 socialauth demo.
 # OAuth endpoint (!RequestToken URL, Authorization URL and !AccessToken URL) can be configured through properties file now.
 # Response object returned by !UpdateStatus method. 
 # Bug fixes

== Whats new in Version 4.0 ? ==
 # New Plugin Architecture
 # Feeds Plugin for Facebook, Twitter and Linkedin
 # Album Plugin for Facebook and Twitter
 # CDI jar and CDI demo
 # Changes in Linkedin for passing scopes and getting user email

== Whats new in Version 3.0 ? ==

 # Upload Photo option in Facebook and Twitter
 # Bug fixes


== Whats new in Version 2.3 ? ==

 # Added new provider "Mendeley"
 # Bug fixes


== Whats new in Version 2.2 ? ==

 # Support to manage state of logged-in providers in socialauth filter
 # Fixes to work with GAE
 # Options in properties file to set proxy
 # Option in properties file to set !HttpConnection timeout


== Whats new in Version 2.1 ? ==

 # New providers - Salesforce and Yammer.
 # New framework to easily add any provider supporting OAuth1.0a, Oauth1.0+OpenID Hybrid or OAuth2.0 protocols
 # Easy to add permission scopes through properties file. 